# Lab Answer Key:  Module 1: Getting started with Microsoft Azure
# Lab: Using the Azure portals
  
## Exercise 1: Customizing the Azure portal interface
  
#### Task 1: Connect to the Azure portal
  
1. From the lab virtual machine MIA-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com). 

1. When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that has the Owner role in the Azure subscription you intend to use for this lab.


#### Task 2: Explore and customize the Azure portal interface
  
1. Once the Azure portal loads, if presented with the **Welcome to Azure** dialog box, click **Maybe later**. 

1. In the Azure portal, in the hub menu on the left hand side of the page, click **Dashboard**.

1. On the dashboard, review the set of default tiles.

1. Click the **Service Health** tile, and then click **Launch guided tour**. 

1. Step through the guided tour, reviewing the content of each page and clicking **Next** once your review is completed.

1. In the **Welcome to your personalized view of Azure Service Health** dialog box, click **Start tour**. 

1. Click **Microsoft Azure** in the upper-left corner to the deafult view of the Azure portal.

1. In the hub menu, click **+ Create a resource**.

1. On the **New** blade, review the list of available options, but do not select any.

1. In the hub menu, click **All services**, in the **All services** text box, type **Subscriptions**, and press **Enter**.

1. In the list of results, click **Subscriptions**.

1. On the **Subscriptions** blade, right-click the entry that represents your subscription, and then click **Pin to dashboard** in the context menu.

1. Click the **Notification** icon (bell) in the horizontal bar in the upper-right part of the portal page, and then verify that the subscription tile was pinned to dashboard successfully.

1. Close the **Notifications** pane.

1. Click **Microsoft Azure** in the upper-left corner to return to the default view of the Azure portal and then, in the hub menu, click **Dashboard**.

1. Verify that a new tile that represents your subscription appears on the dashboard.

1. Leave the Microsoft Edge window that shows the Azure portal open.

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have signed in to the Azure portal and customized its interface.


## Exercise 2: Viewing billing, usage, and quotas data
  
#### Task 1: View resource cost and usage in the Azure portal
  
1. In the Microsoft Edge window that displays the default dashboard in the Azure portal, click the dashboard tile that represents your subscription.

1. On the current blade, note the pie chart that shows **Costs by resource**. Click the pie chart to display the **Costs by resource** blade, which shows a detailed breakdown of resource costs.

> **Note:** If you are using an Azure Pass or any other type of Azure Sponsorship subscription, you will need to browse to [**https://www.microsoftazuresponsorship.com**](https://www.microsoftazuresponsorship.com) and,  on the **Azure Sponsorships** subscription, click **Check your balance** in order to retrieve current balance and usage information. 

1. Scroll back to the blade that shows your subscription within the Azure portal and click **Usage + quotas**. 

1. On the current blade, note the current usage and the quotas for different types of resources.
 
> **Note:** Because this is the beginning of the course, it is likely that the subscription has not incurred any charges and does not include any resources. In this case, you will see a message that usage or billing data is not available. You should consider revisiting this interface on the second day of the course. Additionally, keep in mind that this interface will allow you to track cost of resources going forward, so you should review it frequently.

> **Note:** If you are using an Azure Pass or any other type of Azure Sponsorship subscription, quota information will not be available.


#### Task 2: View billing data in the Azure Account Center
  
1. In the Azure portal, on the subscription blade, click **Overview**.

1. Click **Manage**. This will open another Microsoft Edge tab, which automatically redirects you to https://account.azure.com.

1. If prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Account Administrator of the Azure subscription you are using in this lab.

1. On the subscription summary page, note that the **OVERVIEW** tab is active. Review its contents.

> **Note:** Because this is the beginning of the course, it is likely that the subscription has not incurred any charges and does not include any resources. In this case, you will see a message stating that **You have not used any services recently with this subscription**. You should consider revisiting this interface on the second day of the course. Additionally, keep in mind that this interface will allow you to track cost of resources going forward, so you should review it frequently.

1. Click **Download usage details**. This will automatically redirect you to the **BILLING HISTORY** tab.

1. Note the **Download usage** labe and the two options allowing you to download Version 1 or Version 2 - Preview usage data. The latter includes data representing custom tags that can be assigned to individual resources or groups of resources. This helps with identifying charges associated with resources that share common tags.

1. Do not download the usage report. To view the report, you must use Microsoft Excel, which is not installed on the lab computer.

1. Close all open windows.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module
  
1. From the lab virtual machine MIA-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com). 

1. When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that has the Owner role in the Azure subscription you used for this lab.

1. On dashboard of the Azure portal, right-click the tile representing your subscription and click **Unpin from dashboard**.

1. Close Microsoft Edge.

When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have viewed your Azure subscription billing and usage data successfully.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
