# Lab Answer Key:  Module 2: Microsoft Azure management tools
# Lab: Using Microsoft Azure management tools
  
## Exercise 1: Using the Azure PowerShell modules

#### Task 1: Install the updated version of the .NET Framework

1. From the lab virtual machine MIA-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to [**http://azure.microsoft.com**](http://azure.microsoft.com). 

1. On the **Downloads** page, in the **Command-line tools** section, locate the **PowerShell** section.

1. In the **PowerShell** section, click **Install**.

1. On the **Install the Azure PowerShell module** page, review the requirements and instructions for installing the Azure PowerShell module.

1. In the **Requirements** section, click the **.NET Framework 4.7.2 or later** link. Your browser will be automatically redirected to the page [**https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/install/**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/install/).

1. On the **Installation guide** page, click the **Windows 10 and Windows Server 2016** link. Your browser will be automatically redirected to the **Install the .NET Framework on Windows 10 and Windows Server 2016 and later** page.

1. Scroll down to the **.NET Framework 4.8** section and click the **Download .NET Framework 4.8** link. Your browser will be automatically redirected to the **Download .NET Framework 4.8** page. 

1. On the **Download .NET Framework 4.8** page, click the **Download .NET Framework 4.8 Runtime** link.

1. When prompted what to do with **ndp48-web.exe**, click **Run**.

1. When prompted by User Account Control, click **Yes**.

1. On the **.NET Framework 4.8 Setup** page, click the checkbox **I have read and accept the license terms** and click **Install**.

1. Wait for the installation to complete. 


#### Task 2: Install the Azure PowerShell modules
  
1. On MIA-CL1, right-click the **Start** button and, in the right-click menu, click **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.

1. When prompted by User Account Control, click **Yes**.

1. At the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command, and then press the **Enter** key:

   ```
   Install-Module -Name Az -AllowClobber -Scope AllUsers
   ```

1. When prompted whether to use PowerShellGet to install and import the NuGet provider, type **Y** and press the **Enter** key.

1. When prompted whether to install the modules from PSGallery, type **A** and press the **Enter** key.

1. Wait for the installation to complete.


#### Task 3: Connect to your Azure subscription
  
1. At the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command, and then press the **Enter** key:

   ```
   Get-Module -ListAvailable -Name Az*
   ```

    > **Note**: The output contains a list of a number of Azure-specific PowerShell modules, including Az.* modules and the Azure.Storage module.

1. At the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command to sign in to your Azure subscription, and then press Enter:

   ```
   Add-AzAccount
   ```

    > **Note**: The command will automatically open a new tab in the Microsoft Edge window and display the **Sign in** dialog box. 

1. In the **Email, phone, or Skype** text box, type the name of the Microsoft account that has the Owner role in the Azure subscription you intend to use for this lab and press the **Enter** key.

1. In the **Password** text box, type the corresponding password, and then click **Sign in**.

    > **Note**: The cmdlet returns the list of all Azure subscriptions associated with your Microsoft account.


#### Task 3: Use Azure PowerShell cmdlets
  
1. Back at the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following cmdlet to retrieve the same list of subscriptions associated with your Microsoft account, and then press the **Enter** key:

   ```
   Get-AzSubscription
   ```

1. Copy the value of the **Id** property displayed in the output of the preceding cmdlet by selecting it and then pressing Ctrl+C.

1. Type the following cmdlet, replacing `<value of the subscription id property>` with the value returned by the previous cmdlet, and then press the **Enter** key:

   ```
   Select-AzSubscription -SubscriptionId <value of the subscription id property>
   ```

    > **Note**: If you had multiple subscriptions, you would use this cmdlet to specify the Azure subscription you want to work with in the current PowerShell session.

1. To retrieve the list of Azure Resource Manager providers available in the target Azure subscription, type the following cmdlet, and then press the **Enter** key:

   ```
   Get-AzResourceProvider
   ```

    > **Note**: The cmdlet lists each Azure Resource Provider, its registration state (the provider must be registered before you can use it), and the list of resource types you can create by referencing it.

1. To identify the list of resource types that are implemented by the Microsoft.Compute provider (which includes Azure Virtual Machines), type the following cmdlet, and then press the **Enter** key:

   ```
   Get-AzResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute
   ```

1. To identify the list of resource types that are implemented by the Microsoft.Compute provider in the East US Azure region, type the following cmdlet, and then press the **Enter** key:

   ```
   Get-AzResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute -Location 'East US'
   ```

1. Close the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window.

1. Leave Microsoft Edge open.

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have successfully used the Azure PowerShell modules.


## Exercise 2: Using the Azure CLI
  
#### Task 1: Install the Azure CLI
  
1. On MIA-CL1, in Microsoft Edge, browse to [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli-windows?view=azure-cli-latest](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli-windows?view=azure-cli-latest) and click the **Download the MSI installer** link. 

1. When prompted whether to run the MSI installer, click **Run**.

1. On the **Microsoft Azure CLI Setup** page, click **I accept the terms of the License Agreement** and then click **Install**.

1. When prompted by User Account Control, click **Yes**.

1. Wait for the installation to complete and, on the **Completed the Microsoft Azure CLI Setup Wizard** page, click **Finish**. 


#### Task 2: Connect to your Azure subscription by using the Azure CLI
  
1. On MIA-CL1, click **Start**, in the Start menu, click the **Windows System** folder, right-click the **Command Prompt** shortcut, click **More**, and then click **Run as administrator**.

1. When prompted by User Account Control, click **Yes**.

1. In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press the **Enter** key:

   ```
   az
   ```

    > **Note**: A summary of the Azure CLI commands displays.

1. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press the **Enter** key:

   ```
   az login
   ```

> **Note**: The command will automatically open a new tab in the Microsoft Edge window and display the **Sign in** dialog box. 

1. In the **Email, phone, or Skype** text box, type the name of the Microsoft account that has the Owner role in the Azure subscription you are using for this lab and press the **Enter** key.

1. In the **Password** text box, type the corresponding password, and then click **Sign in**.

1. Close the browser window.

1. Back in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, note the JSON-formatted output displaying information about the current session, including the IDs of the subscriptions that your account is associated with. 


#### Task 3: Manage your Azure subscription by using the Azure CLI
 
1. List the Azure subscriptions that your account is associated with by typing the following command at the command prompt and then pressing the **Enter** key:

   ```
   az account list
   ```

    > **Note**: This command produces the same JSON-formatted output that was displayed after you successfully authenticated in the previous task.

1. Copy the value of the **id** property displayed in the output of the preceding command by selecting it and then pressing Ctrl+C.

1. Type the following command, paste the copied entry to replace the `<value of the subscription id property>` placeholder, and then press the **Enter** key:

   ```
   az account set --subscription <value of the subscription id property>
   ```

    > **Note**: If you had multiple subscriptions, you would use the preceding command to specify the Azure subscription you want to work with in the current Azure CLI session.

1. To retrieve the list of Azure Resource Manager providers available in your subscription, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press the **Enter** key:

   ```
   az provider list
   ```

    > **Note**: The output of the command contains JSON-formatted list of each Azure Resource Provider available in your subscription and its registration state (the provider must be registered before you can use it).

1. To list all Azure regions available in the current subscription, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press the **Enter** key:

   ```
   az account list-locations
   ```

1. To identify the list of resources that are implemented by the Microsoft.Compute provider (which includes Azure Virtual Machines) along with the list of locations where they are available, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press the **Enter** key:

   ```
   az provider show --namespace Microsoft.Compute
   ```

1. Close the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have used the Azure CLI.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
