# Lab Answer Key:  Module 3: Virtual machines in Microsoft Azure
# Lab: Creating a VM in Azure
  
## Exercise 1: Creating a VM from the Azure portal by using an Azure Marketplace image
  
#### Task 1: Create a VM
  
1. From the lab virtual machine MIA-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com). 

1. If prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that has the Owner role in the Azure subscription you intend to use for this lab.

1. If presented with a dialog box informing about a new way to navigate Azure, click **Dock the portal menu**.

1. In the hub menu on the left side of the portal page, click **+ Create a resource**.

1. On the **New** blade, in the **Search the Marketplace** text box, type **Windows Server** and press the **Enter** key.

1. On the **Marketplace** blade, click **Windows Server**.

1. On the **Windows Server** blade, in the **Select a software plan** drop-down list, select **Windows Server 2019 Datacenter** and click **Create**. 

1. On the **Basics** tab of the **Create a virtual machine** blade, set the following, and then click **Next: Disks**:

    - Subscription: ensure that the name of the target Azure subscription appears in the drop-down list

    - Resource group: click **Create new**, in the **Name** text box, type **10979E0301-LabRG**, and click **OK**.

    - Virtual machine name: **10979E0301-vm**
  
    - Region: select the name of the Azure region that is available in your subscription for deployment of Azure VMs and which is closest to the lab location

    - Availability options: **No infrastructure redundancy required**

    - Image: **Windows Server 2019 Datacenter**

    - Size: accept the default size

    - Username: **Student**

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

    - Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

    - Public inbound ports: click **Allow selected ports**

    - Select inbound ports: **RDP (3389)**
  
    - Already have a Windows license: **No**

1. On the **Disks** tab of the **Create a virtual machine** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **Next: Networking**:

    - OS disk type: **Standard HDD** 

    - Enable Ultra Disk compatibility: accept the default value
    
    - Use managed disks: **Yes**
    
    - Use ephemeral OS disk: accept the default value
    
    > **Note**: To view the last two options, you need to click **Advanced**. 

1. On the **Networking** tab of the **Create a virtual machine** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **Next: Management**:

    - Virtual network: accept the default value (this will create a new virtual network)

    - Subnet: accept the default value (this will create a /24 subnet named **default** within the IP address space of the virtual network)

    - Public IP: **(new) 10979E0301-vm-ip**

    - NIC network security group: **Basic**

    - Public inbound ports: **Allow selected ports**

    - Select inbound ports: **RDP (3389)**

    - Accelerated networking: **Off**
    
    - Load balancing: **No**

1. On the **Management** tab of the **Create a virtual machine** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **Next: Advanced**:

    - Enable basic plan for free: **No**
    
    - Boot diagnostics: **On**
  
    - OS guest diagnostics: **Off**
  
    - Diagnostics storage account: accept the default value (this will create a new storage account)

    - Managed service identity: **Off**
    
    - Login with AAD credentials (Preview): **Off**

    - Enable auto-shutdown: **Off**

    - Enable backup: **Off**

1. On the **Advanced** tab of the **Create a virtual machine** blade, accept the default settings, and then click **Next: Tags**.

1. On the **Tags** tab of the **Create a virtual machine** blade, accept the default settings, and then click **Next: Review + create**.

1. On the **Review + create** tab of the **Create a virtual machine** blade, review the list of settings and click **Create**.

1. Monitor the progress of the deployment by viewing the **Your deployment is underway** blade. 

1. Wait for the deployment to complete. 

    > **Note**: The deployment might take about 5 minutes. 


#### Task 2: Verify VM creation
  
1. On MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure Portal, on the **Your deployment is complete** blade, click **Go to resource**.

1. On the **10979E0301-vm** blade, click **Activity log**. This will display the blade allowing you to search for activities affecting the VM that you or other admins carried out.

    > **Note**: The list of events should include an entry corresponding to the creation of the virtual machine. 

1. At the top of the menu options for the Azure VM, click **Overview** and review the information displayed on the corresponding blade.

1. In the list of menu options, scroll down to the **Support + troubleshooting** section and click **Resource health**.

1. Verify that there are no known Azure platform problems affecting this VM. Click **Refresh** if you receive a message stating **Resource health unknown**.

> **Result**: Once you completed this lab, you have deployed a Microsoft Azure VM from the Azure Portal by using a Windows Server 2019 Datacenter Azure Marketplace image, as well as reviewed activity logs and resource health of the VM.


## Exercise 2: Verifying the functionality of the VM
  
#### Task 1: View the properties of the VM
  
1. On MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure Portal, on the **10979E0301-vm** blade, click **Overview** .

1. On the **10979E0301-vm** blade, review the properties of the Azure VM. You will notice that the Azure VM has a public IP address, but not a corresponding Domain Name System (DNS) name. In addition, the **Connect** button will be enabled.

1. In the list of menu options, scroll down to the **Settings** section and click **Properties**.

1. Notice that the VM also has a private IP address.


#### Task 2: Connect to a VM
  
1. On MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure Portal, on the **10979E0301-vm** blade, click **Overview**.

1. Click **Connect**, then click **Download RDP File**.

1. When prompted whether to open or save the .rdp file, click **Open**.

1. In the **Remote Desktop Connection** window, click **Connect**.

1. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, specify the following and click **OK**:

    - User name: **Student**

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

1. In the **Remote Desktop Connection** window, click **Yes**.

1. Wait until the connection is successfully established.

1. Minimize the Remote Desktop Connection window.

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have viewed properties of an Azure VM from the Azure portal and connected to the Azure VM by using Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP).


## Exercise 3: Configuring storage of a VM
  
#### Task 1: Attach data disks to an Azure VM
  
1. From MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure Portal, ensure that you are viewing the **10979E0301-vm** blade. 

1. On the **10979E0301-vm** blade, click **Disks**.

1. To attach the first disk, click **+ Add data disk**.

1. In the list of data disks, in the **Name** drop-down list, click **No managed disks available** and then, click **Create disk**. 

1. On the **Create managed disk** blade, specify the following settings and click **Create**:

    - Name: **10979E0301-vm_DataDisk1**

    - Resource group: **10979E0301-LabRG**

    - Source type: **None**

    - Size (GiB): Click **Change size**, on the **Select a disk size** blade, ensure that **Premium SSD** appears in the **Account type** drop down list, in the list of disk sizes, click **128 GiB**, and then click **OK**
    
1. Wait until the new disk is provisioned.

1. On the **10979E0301-vm - Disks** blade, in the row corresponding to the first data disk, ensure that **Read-only** appears in the **Host caching** drop-down list.

1. To attach the second disk, click **+ Add data disk**.

1. In the list of data disks, in the **Name** drop-down list, click **Create disk**. 

1. On the **Create managed disk** blade, specify the following settings and click **Create**:

    - Name: **10979E0301-vm_DataDisk2**

    - Resource group: **10979E0301-LabRG**

    - Source type: **None**

    - Size (GiB): Click **Change size**, on the **Select a disk size** blade, ensure that **Premium SSD** appears in the **Account type** drop down list, in the list of disk sizes, click **128 GiB**, and then click **OK**

1. Wait until the new disk is provisioned.

1. On the **10979E0301-vm - Disks** blade, in the row corresponding to the first data disk, ensure that **Read-only** appears in the **Host caching** drop-down list.

1. Click **Save** and, when prompted to confirm, click **Yes**.
    

#### Task 2: Create a two-disk volume in the Azure VM that runs Windows
  
1. On MIA-CL1, switch to the Remote Desktop session window. If prompted, in the Networks pane, click **No**.

1. In the Remote Desktop session, in the **Server Manager** window, click **File and Storage Services**.

1. In the **Servers** navigation pane on the left side, click **Storage Pools**.

1. In the **STORAGE POOLS** pane, click the **TASKS** menu, and then click **New Storage Pool** in the drop-down list. This will open the New Storage Pool Wizard.

1. On the **Before you begin** page, click **Next**.

1. On the **Specify a storage pool name and subsystem** page, type **StoragePool1** in the **Name** text box, and then click **Next**.

1. On **Select physical disks for the storage pool** page, select the check boxes next to the entries representing the disks you attached in the Azure Portal, and then click **Next**.

1. On the **Confirm selections** page, click **Create**.

1. On the **View results** page, select the **Create a virtual disk when this wizard closes** check box, and then click **Close**. 

1. In the **Select the storage pool** window, ensure that **StoragePool1** entry is selected and click **OK**. 

1. In the **Select the storage pool** window, ensure that **StoragePool1** is selected and click **OK**.

1. In the **New Virtual Disk Wizard**, on the **Before you begin** page, click **Next**.

1. On the **Specify the virtual disk name** page, type **VirtualDisk1** in the **Name** text box, and then click **Next**.

1. On the **Specify enclosure resiliency** page, click **Next**.

1. On the **Select the storage layout** page, click **Simple** and then click **Next**.

1. On the **Specify the provisioning type** page, ensure that **Fixed** is selected, and then click **Next**.

1. On the **Specify the size of the virtual disk** page, click **Maximum size**, and then click **Next**.

1. On the **Confirm selections** page, click **Create**.

1. On the **View results** page, ensure that the **Create a volume when this wizard closes** check box is selected, and then click **Close**. This will open the New Volume Wizard.

1. On the **Before you begin** page, click **Next**.

1. On the **Select the server and disk** page, ensure that **VirtualDisk1** is selected, and then click **Next**.

1. On the **Specify the size of the volume** page, accept the default value (254 GB), and then click **Next**.

1. On the **Assign to a drive letter or folder** page, in the **Drive letter** drop-down list, click **F** and then click **Next**.

1. On the **Select file system settings** page, accept the default settings (the NTFS file system with default allocation unit size and the **New volume** label), and then click **Next**.

1. On the **Confirm selections** page, click **Create**.

1. On the **Completion** page, click **Close**.

1. From 10979E0301-vm, open File Explorer, and then verify that there is a new drive F: with 253 GB of available disk space.

1. Close the Remote Desktop session to 10979E0301-vm.

1. Close all open windows on MIA-CL1.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module

1. From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com), and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. In the Azure Portal, in the Hub menu, click **Resource groups**.

1. On the **Resource groups** blade, click **10979E0301-LabRG**.

1. On the **10979E0301-LabRG** blade, click **Delete resource group**.

1. On the **Are you sure you want to delete "10979E0301-LabRG"?** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, type **10979E0301-LabRG** and click **Delete**.

1. Close Microsoft Edge.

When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the VMs. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: Once you completed this lab, you have attached two data disks to the Azure VM from the Azure Portal and created a two-disk volume in an Azure VM that runs Windows Server 2019 Datacenter by using Storage Spaces.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
